- [Narrator] So we built our very first Docker image,
but that was all using simple Ubuntu and hello world,
and this is a course for Docker for Java developers.
Now let's take a look how can we build
our very first Java image using Docker.
For that we will go to Terminal and create our Docker file,
build images, and run some containers.
Let's do that.
So here I am in my Terminal, and if you see,
I am in my chapter two directory.
As we talked about earlier, we are going to create
a new directory, because that is going to set
the build context for us.
So let's take a look at this listing of this directory.
The directory listing in your console
may look slightly different.
In my listing there are a couple of additional files,
but that's not to be worried about.
All the key files that are required for you
to run the course are already available
in your directory listing as well.
I already have hello world here, so I will go to hello world
directory, and let's take a look at the listing over here.
The directory is completely empty.
So in this directory, now I'm going to make a Docker file,
and then we will create our image with that.
As we discussed earlier, we need a base image
for creating our Docker image.
Now in this case, we're going to use an open JDK image.
Well, how do we know the name of open JDK?
For that we will go to hub.docker.com.
So let's take a look at that.
Now here I am on hub.docker.com.
This is as we discussed the Docker Registry.
It's a publicly available, accessible, free Docker Registry.
If I search on open JDK here, here is my Docker image
for open JDK, and I click on it.
It shows me complete details about what different tags
are available, how can I use it, how can I start
a simple Java instance, other details.
If you want a specific version of open JDK,
you can look at different tags,
and here it shows all the tags.
A later section will talk about tags and other aspects
of this, but for now, we're just going to use
the open JDK as a base image.
So let's go back to our Terminal and build our image.
In my Terminal, I'm going to make a Docker file.
I'm going to just say Docker file, and if you remember,
our very first instruction for Docker file was from.
I'm going to say from.
I'm going to say open JDK here.
I don't care about at this point what version,
what tag, et cetera, that I'm going to use,
and I'm just going to have one simple command,
and all that we'll do is Java version, and that's it.
Very simple, very clean first Java Docker file.
So let's save this here,
and now we're going to build our Docker image.
Going to say Docker image build and we're going to give it a name
or a tag, hello Java, and then I'm going to say dot.
The moment I say dot that is my build context, okay?
So now let's build this image.
Now, open JDK image does not exist,
so it downloads that image from Docker Hub,
and then it's going to build my own Docker image with that.
It takes a few seconds to download the image,
but once the image is downloaded, our image is created.
So let's take a look at it.
I'm going to say Docker image ls and you can see,
here is the open JDK image that is downloaded for us,
and here is our hello Java image
that was created about nine seconds ago.
Don't worry too much about tag and image ID.
We will talk about that in a later section.
But for now, what we want to do is just run our container.
So I'm going to say Docker container run hello Java,
and there we go.
It just shows me the simple JDK version that is being used,
and in this case is 1.8.0 update 121.
So that is our very first Java Docker image.
The exact list of images may look slightly different
in your console, in case you have tried to build
any additional images, and use different names.
You can see here that open JDK image is 641 megabytes.
Now if you have to build a lot of images like that,
that might take a lot of space.
Well, space is not that big a concern,
but imagine this image to be transported across network,
across different hosts, there's a lot of network bandwidth
cost that you could associate with it.
So let's go back to our hub.docker.com,
and take a look at some other tags,
and what size of images we're going to get with that.
This will allow us to shrink our overall image size.
Okay, so let's go to the browser,
take a look at the open JDK hub.docker.com page.
I'm back here on my open JDK tags page here.
If I scroll down here,
you can see there is a JDK Alpine page.
Now Alpine is a variety of Linux and the JDK image is
based into that and you can see this image is 52 megabytes.
So from 641 to 52 megabytes is pretty incredible.
That's quite a reduction is size for your image,
and thus an improvement in your network utilization as well.
So let's go back to our Docker image,
and recreate this image using this JDK Alpine tag.
I'm back in my terminal here.
I'm going to open up my Docker file,
and all I need to do is add a new tag.
Well, by default, it was using the latest tag.
If you don't specify anything, that is the default.
But just by specifying JDK Alpine tag,
now it's going to use that particular
version of the open JDK image.
So save it, and I'm going to build my image again.
Now, once again, if I don't give a tag when
I'm building an image, it uses the latest tag.
But I can optionally give it a tag,
in this case, either two,
or I could have said Alpine as well.
But just as a convenience, I will give it a number two.
So let's build our image now, and it's downloading
my open JDK Alpine version of the image.
And now if we look at the image listing,
where is my JDK Alpine?
Well there is a discrepancy here,
because it says 145 megabytes,
because the one stored on hub.docker.com is compressed.
So just keep that in mind essentially.
So it may not be that big a difference,
or that big a reduction in size,
so this is something you need to be aware of.
The image needs to be downloaded here and uncompressed,
but the key part is if I look at my hello Java two
image here, that is 145 megabytes, as opposed to 641.
That's literally one fourth the size
of what we could have done.
And same way if I were to run this container here,
I will just say hello Java:2, and it's going to run it.
But of course, it's the JDK Alpine,
so it's a different version, different release cycle,
but you get an idea of how easy it is
to build you first Java image.
Now in this case, all we are doing
is just printing Java version.
In a future section we'll take a look at how can we package
our Java files, or JAR files, and run those JAR files.